**Algorithm**

The aim of the algorithm is two-fold. Creating groups based on common times, and creating groups with similar or dissimilar (up to the end user) answers to the questions. At the moment, the algorithm has a bug in it somewhere in the time sorting logic, so times are not used to sort groups at the moment. Also, the use of tentative times is not implemented, they are instead interpreted as fully working times.

The current (fairly simple) idea of the algorithm is to randomly create groups with as many matching times as possible. The created proposed set of groups is scored by how well the times match, as  well as how similar (dissimilar is yet to be implemented) the answers are. This would then be repeated for a number of (at least 1000+) times, and the best scoring grouping is then selected and returned.

Single choice questions are assumed to be on a continuum, ie. with three choices, choices 1 and 2 are more similar than 1 and 3. Multiple choice questions are graded simply by the amount of similar answers (actually the inverse of dissimilar answers). A smarter option would be to add weights or values to specific answer choices, so these could be used to group users more (or less) aggressively. 

Some smarter clustering algorithm would probably yield better results, as the random approach can’t even scratch the surface of all possible groupings. For context, there are over 10^100 ways to divide 99 into groups of 3. We couldn’t find a well suited clustering algorithm for our needs, but that is not to say that one does not exist. We quite quickly decided to move along with a simpler approach.

The algorithm also provides a method to generate randomized data for testing. The randomized data contains four questions (single choice questions with 3 and 4 choices, multiple choice questions with 4 and 5 choices) with random answers, and a randomized answer to the timetable question. Feel free to tweak these according to your needs.

As mentioned, there is a bug somewhere when grouping with times. We couldn’t reproduce this bug, and it was only apparent in our production demo course (because why not) when trying to create groups for it. As our demo was only a day away when we discovered this, we decided to scrap the time functionality altogether to get something working for the demo. This problem was not apparent when creating groups from randomized data, or in staging, or in production with the other courses. The types or amounts of answers or questions didn’t seem to matter either, and we were only able to point the fault to the algorithm. As we didn’t have access to production logs and couldn’t reproduce it anywhere else, the time-sorting bit was swiftly put aside for the moment. We recommend not neglecting access to logging.
